King:
The king may move ony one space untill its not blocked by any other piece.
The King may not move to a square:
    that is occupied by one of his own pieces,
    where it is checked by an enemy piece
    adjacent to the enemy King

Queen:
The Queen may move any number of spaces straight or digonally

Rook:
The rook may move any number of spaces horizontally or vertically

Bishop:
The bishop may move any number of spaces digonally

Knight:
It is the only piece that can jump over another piece
The Knight can jump to any square in L shape. This is the only piece that can jump over a piece in its way.

Pawn:
After its first move the Pawn may only advance one square at a time. The Pawn captures by moving diagonally one square forward in each direction.
The Pawn cannot move or capture backwards!

PAWN PROMOTION
If a White Pawn reaches the 8th (or 1st with Black) rank of the board, it must be exchanged. It can be promoted to a Queen, Rook, Bishop or Knight of its own colour. But never to a King!

EN PASSANT
The possibility of en passant Pawn capture arises when the opponent’s Pawn has just moved from its starting position two squares ahead and our Pawn is next to it. This kind of capture is only possible at this time and cannot be done later.

Castle
Castling in both directions:
The King moves two squares in the direction of the Rook, the Rook jumps over the King and lands on the square next to it. 

    You cannot castle:

if the King is in check
if there is a piece between the Rook and the King
if the King is in check after castling
if the square through which the King passes is under attack
if the King or the Rook has already been moved in the game

check
A King is in check, when it is attacked by the opponent’s piece. The King can never be captured.

    A King must get out of the check immediately:.

by moving the King
by capturing the piece that gave the check
or by blocking the check with one of the pieces of his team. This is impossible if the check was given by the Knight.

Check Mate
If the King cannot escape from the check, the position is checkmate and the game is over. The player who got checkmated gets zero point and the player giving mate gets one point.

Stalemate/Draw
There are three possible results in a chess game. If neither side wins, the game is a draw and both players get half a point. A draw is half as good as a win, but much better, than losing.

    The different forms a drawn game are the following:

Stalemate. When a player whose turn it is has no legal moves by any of his/her pieces, but is not in check.
Perpetual check & three times repetition
Theoretical draw (when there are not sufficient pieces on the board to checkmate)
Draw agreed by the players

Stalemate occurs when the player, who has to make the move, has no possible move, and his King is not in check.

In the starting position, square a1 is always White. 
The queen is always on her own colour, next to the King in the middle. White starts the game, afterward the players alternately move.